ProgrammingLanguageGuides/Python.md, before:

---
title: Tips and trics for Python
---

# Python things

**List comprehensions**  
List comprehensions is a concise way of creating lists based on functions on other iterables.  
Basic syntax: myList = [expression forloops conditions].  
To create a generator instead of a list, use ().  
To create sets, use {}  
Examples:  
```python
  import numpy as np
  matrix = np.array([ [x,y]
    for x in range(4)
    for y in range(5)
  ]) # Creates a 20x2 matrix
```
# OS utilities
**Path**  

One of  the most prominent OS libraries is the Path from pathlib. Path is used for path strings that are OS independent.
```python
  from pathlib import Path
  currentLocation = Path()
  fileLocation = Path().joinpath('data', 'Locations.txt')
```
# Plotting
Basic library is matplotlib.pyplot.  
Another good library is seaborn.

**3D plotting**

Create a 3d plot using pyplot
```python
  import matplotlib.pytplot as plt
  fig = figure()
  ax = fig.add_subplot(111, projection='3d')
  ax.scatter(X, Y, Z)
  plt.show()
```

# Parsing

## Regex
Some sites:  
- An site for testing your regex: www.regex101.com  
- Basics of python regex: [basics](https://python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/howto/regex.html#compiling-regular-expressions)  

Basic library is re  

**Basics**  

- Any character: Use . to match any character (but not newline), and `[\s\S]*` to match anything including new line.
- Use .* to match 0 or more times and .+ to match one or more times.
- Use ? for nongreedy search, e.g., `a.*?b` stops after first b and `a.*b` stops at last b.
- use r to make the string raw (or triple quotes which keep new lines)
- For whitespace type characters use `\s` instead of ' ', and for nonwhitespace `\S`
- For digits use `\d`

**Capturing groups**  
We can capture everything between (including ends) using parenthesis as follows:  
```python
  import re
  myString = '-hereisstuff;hereismorestuff'
  find_between = re.compile(r"-(.*);") # Matches between - and ; any character
  match_object = find_between.match(myString)
  match_object.group(0) # Returns the full match.
  #Out: '-hereisstuff;'
```

Remarks:  

- 0 returns the full match including the - and ;, where as 1 would give it without them ('hereisstuff')

You can also name the groups. In the previous example:   
```python
  import re
  myString = '-hereisstuff;hereismorestuff'
  find_between = re.compile(r"-(?P<variableName>.*);") # Matches between - and ; any character
  match_object = find_between.match(myString)
  match_object.group('variableName') # Works like 1 on previous example
  #Out: 'hereisstuff'
```

Remarks:  

- Great example of using groupings is first answer in [this_link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47982949/how-to-parse-complex-text-files-using-python/47984221#47984221)

Commit message:

Changes in Atomwriting and Python

ProgrammingLanguageGuides/Python.md, after:

---
title: Tips and trics for Python
---

# Python things

**List comprehensions**  
List comprehensions is a concise way of creating lists based on functions on other iterables.  
Basic syntax: myList = [expression forloops conditions].  
To create a generator instead of a list, use ().  
To create sets, use {}  
Examples:  
```python
  import numpy as np
  matrix = np.array([ [x,y]
    for x in range(4)
    for y in range(5)
  ]) # Creates a 20x2 matrix
```
# OS utilities
**Path**  

One of  the most prominent OS libraries is the Path from pathlib. Path is used for path strings that are OS independent.
```python
  from pathlib import Path
  currentLocation = Path()
  fileLocation = Path().joinpath('data', 'Locations.txt')
```  

When running a file, Python creates a variable called `__file__`, that can be used to get the files path. Use the command:  
```python
filepath = Path(__file__).parent
```   
where parent can be used instead of '..'.

# Plotting
Basic library is matplotlib.pyplot.  
Another good library is seaborn.

**3D plotting**

Create a 3d plot using pyplot
```python
  import matplotlib.pytplot as plt
  fig = figure()
  ax = fig.add_subplot(111, projection='3d')
  ax.scatter(X, Y, Z)
  plt.show()
```

# Parsing

## Regex
Some sites:  

- An site for testing your regex: www.regex101.com  
- Basics of python regex: [basics](https://python.readthedocs.io/en/stable/howto/regex.html#compiling-regular-expressions)  

Basic library is re  

**Basics**  

- Any character: Use . to match any character (but not newline), and `[\s\S]*` to match anything including new line.
- Use .* to match 0 or more times and .+ to match one or more times.
- Use ? for nongreedy search, e.g., `a.*?b` stops after first b and `a.*b` stops at last b.
- use r to make the string raw (or triple quotes which keep new lines)
- For whitespace type characters use `\s` instead of ' ', and for nonwhitespace `\S`
- For digits use `\d`

**Capturing groups**  
We can capture everything between (including ends) using parenthesis as follows:  
```python
  import re
  myString = '-hereisstuff;hereismorestuff'
  find_between = re.compile(r"-(.*);") # Matches between - and ; any character
  match_object = find_between.match(myString)
  match_object.group(0) # Returns the full match.
  #Out: '-hereisstuff;'
```

Remarks:  

- 0 returns the full match including the - and ;, where as 1 would give it without them ('hereisstuff')

You can also name the groups. In the previous example:   
```python
  import re
  myString = '-hereisstuff;hereismorestuff'
  find_between = re.compile(r"-(?P<variableName>.*);") # Matches between - and ; any character
  match_object = find_between.match(myString)
  match_object.group('variableName') # Works like 1 on previous example
  #Out: 'hereisstuff'
```

Remarks:  

- Great example of using groupings is first answer in [this_link](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/47982949/how-to-parse-complex-text-files-using-python/47984221#47984221)  

# Pandas  
Pandas is the main library for data slicing and dicing in Python.  

**read_csv**  
This is the workhorse of pandas, used to read any text file.  

- To read a string, use io.StringIO(str). This command makes the string into a file-like stream which can be used by functions that take as inputs files.  
- option `delim_whitespace=True` is the same as `sep=\s+`, i.e., the separator can be any mixture of whitespace/tab combination.  
- header=None in the case there is no header.  
- giving dtype explicitly makes the reading faster.

# Concurrent programming  
Article on the basics: [ConcurrentProgramming_with_Python](https://realpython.com/python-concurrency/)  
Main libraries are:  

- multiprocessing, uses various processors and thus good for cpu-bound problems  
- threading, creates many threads on one cpu but no control of changing execution, I/O-bound  
- asyncio, knows where the program is going, best choice for I/O (more complex than threading)
